+++
date = '2025-04-12T14:35:47+05:30'
draft = false
title = 'DSA, End sems and 2 cups of coffee'
tags = ['personal','progress','DSA']
+++

I still can't believe that my blog is finally up! I already have so many ideas for this website like adding a page for my resume, a project showcase of sorts etc. and while I'm excited to implement those, I'd be lying if I said I wasn't scared of the code. Having 5 mental brakdowns and 3 deleted blogsites in a span of 2 days really did make me feel like a true programmer though.

Anyway, I'm glad this website is up and super excited to play around with the code (and hopefully not break anything)!

## DSA progress

I've also been devoting my time to studying C++ and its fundamentals so that I can move to DSA concepts and questions. So far, I haven't technically started DSA but I have covered references, pointers, arrays, etc., and solved a few Hackerrank questions. My goal by the end of this year is to have a decent understanding of DSA and machine learning (which I've also done a little bit). I'm hoping to do enough DSA to tackle easy to medium-level Leetcode problems. Maybe I'm way in over my head but hey, at least I have direction!

I do feel a little happy when I think about my skills from 8 months ago. I could just barely solve string questions in Python and now I'm working with memory addresses, linear regression, pointers, etc. Time really does fly.

I've been following this [course](https://www.udemy.com/course/datastructurescncpp/) from Udemy and I really like the teaching style. I've covered most of the first section and I've decided to solve at least one question every day.

Fun fact about me, _I really like note-taking and documenting what I'm coding_ mostly because I'm afraid I'll forget the logic behind the code. It's very time consuming but it has really helped me so far. It also leads to extremely long codes that are technically 20% code and 80% comments about the code, especially in machine learning!

## End sems

It's been over a month since our mid sems and we still haven't received our scores which sucks because that makes it harder to determine each professor's checking style but also, very amusing to see that it's not just us students who are slacking off!

For the end sems, I'm mostly worried about Stats and Environmental Studies (yes, it sounds like a childish subject but the chemical reactions are hellish) but we did get a lot of preparatory leaves, which I will fully take advantage of.

Between end sem prep, classes, and personal pursuits, I've been chugging coffee down every morning and evening in an attempt to feel energized, which I do, for about an hour or two. After that, I collapse into my bed and let future me worry about my progress.

I also wanted to take up reading, there's a book I've been dying to finish called _Becoming Bangalore_ by Roopa Pai but I guess I can wait for my exams to end before I finish it.
